I'm hanging out with my mom my dad's
supposed to meet us at dinner he was
like 5 minutes late which he seldom was
and my mom was like I think full panic
attack that's how I was raised with time
so you can imagine I have like some
trauma with time one day we were doing a
groundbreakers we were doing like our
weeklong program and um I said I need
help with this I when I'm in this trauma
I need to hear something that pulls me
out of the trauma I think it was
Janine who came up with the expression I
see how much you care and it just
dissolved D my rush because that's what
it was all about as a kid right like it
it it attuned to my trauma in this very
particular way that was like I see you I
see that you care that you're
trying and and it was that not being
seen in that that the all the rush was
about I was rushing so that I could be
seen in that and I was never getting
seen in that and that's what happens
when we're in fights when we're in
fights like
this it's it's we are in our trauma and
we're not being seen the way we weren't
being seen as a kid and now we're making
it really hard to be seen like I was
making it really hard to be seen that I
was in my drama when I'm freaking out
and rushing the kids and honking the
horn and like come on we're late for the
party or whatever the hell like all
anyone can see is that I'm being a dick
right so like it's it was really hard
for anyone to see it and that's the same
like just boom that just all of a sudden
did this thing to me like oh I see how
much you care and it just dissolved it
and so when you're in a fight it's
really important to especially in those
agreements we talked about how do you
look at the kind of those repeating
trauma patterns and how do you attune to
each
other if I start crying what's the
attuned
response is it to just be next to me is
it to have a a thing on my on my knee is
it to say I'm right here with you what
is the thing that you actually want and
it'll take many iterations to find the
thing that like actually like gets you
but you can find that thing so as you're
getting in fights with your partner and
you start seeing these repeating
patterns it's really important to sit
down and have those conversations say I
notice every time let me see if I can
find a one another one that happened
with us um right it's like
uh when you don't feel heard I noticed
that when you don't feel heard you just
continue to argue the point like for
forever and even if I'm saying hey I
hear you and this is what you said if
you like you're in your trauma this
isn't about what's actually happening in
this moment you're just like in this
thing what's the what's the thing that I
can say to
you and and I remember this one Tera was
just like I just need to hear I'm right
you're right you're absolutely 100%
right like yep you're right boy I had a
problem with that one at first I was
like I want be right then
but I realized like oh that it's not
about being right or not being right
what it's about is that she's in her
trauma and when she was a kid she was
always made wrong and she just needed to
be told oh hey I'm I'm I'm right or oh
if you're feeling scared you don't need
me to fix you you just need to be
physically held you just need to be like
embraced in a like a strong way so
you're looking for what are the trauma
patterns that you get in we all know we
get in them in a relationship it's those
repeated fights and it's like what is
that attuned response and you can try to
guess at your partner's response like
the attuned response and you can be
attuned but trauma is weird because
you're being attuned to something that's
actually not happening right now it's
happening in the past like we discussed
so it's really important to like sit
down with your partner and like talk
about like what what is it what do you
most want in that moment in that moment
when you're [__] like feeling like
I'm not that you're all alone in the
relationship and I don't get you like
what is it that you want me to
say what's the thing that you want most
that you never got as a kid like what is
that and and you learning what that is
and to be able to give it to them you
can't you can't give it to them if it
feels like [__] to you right like I
couldn't say you were right for a while
until I until I got it into my bones
what it was
actually but it was it's really
important that you can do that if you're
capable of it and if you want to and if
you're not to figure out what it is in
you that makes it so you don't want to
support them in that way but if it
doesn't feel right don't do it but if
you can do that it's really important to
have that very attuned response to that
repeating trauma that's happening in the
fights
[Music]